I have been looking for a good way to interact with Python for a year or two, but have never invested the time until now to do a proper job of defining what I want out of programming with Python.  Essentially, I want to be able to use Python like I use RStudio or Matlab:  as an environment where I can have a script that can execute commands contained therein. From there, I may want to expand my repertoire, but that would be a comfortable starting point.

Every piece of software I had previously looked at had either a horrible-looking, clunky interface (IDLE, Ninja, etc...) or relied on creating an interactive session on the command line, neither of which appealed to me.  I think I finally found solutions that may work for me:  Canopy Express looks like an IDE that I can use to run not just Python, but other programming languages.  It's a little bit clunky, perhaps owing to my unfamiliarity with the software, but it looks much better than the stuff I've tried before.  More importantly, I ran across iPython, an interactive environment that can be run in any number of ways: from the command line (meh), through a pseudo-graphical interactive environment that displays plots inline (potentially good), or via a web-based notebook interface (good, except if it's slow, since it seems to require an internet connection to function; or does it?).  I can even run iPython notebooks from within Canopy Express, so that offers an extra degree of flexibility.

So, do I have the tools I want to do some serious productive programming in Python? I think so, but I'm not sure yet. The web interface seems fairly responsive when I use it, and the notebook ends up looking and feeling more like a *Mathematica* notebook than a Matlab script.  Additionally, I can include comments inline, formatted in Markdown. This is quite a nice feature, but it's more difficult to run lots of commands at once.  While there is a "Run All" command, the problem with the entire interface is that I lose the ability for keyboard shortcuts (e.g. *command-R* to run all input in the file).

*Notes:* I am going to test if I actually need an internet connection by turning off wireless and disconnecting the ethernet cable.  So far, I'm having trouble getting the server started.  Fortunately, it looks like that was an isolated hiccup.  The next time I tried, it started right up.  Now, things are working well: the only problem, as mentioned above, is the lack of keyboard shortcuts (though *command-S* seems to save the file, at least.  Well, this will probably work...I'll start converting some of my Matlab scripts for Tucson Ultimate to Python as real-world examples.